# My Story My Motivation


I am a typical Singaporean boy who grew up in the typical Singapore education system. I have always cruised through life following the system, following the masses. I got into good schools, gotten good grades. I had never really knew what I wanted to do. As a millenial growing up, I have heard about things like the dotcom bubble, the y2k bug and the various viruses and malwares that are affecting computers worldwide. These things used to scare me. My family had a Dell Pentium 4 desktop setup in the corner of my parents' bedroom. Whenever I get my time at the computer, I was afraid of getting into trouble for getting viruses on the computer. And that would mean no more game time for me. However, very soon I discovered that I could simply reformat the computer if it got infected. During that time, personal information, privacy and security were not a big thing and nobody had any important thing stored on the computer. I would often use the computer to play games from dubious sources and when it got infected, I would just flash a fresh copy of the OS. 

When I got older and the internet grew very much bigger, I was fortunate to be able to afford my own laptop and I played around with different OS, software and hardware. I learned html and css to customise my own blog design. Then I learned programming in C and python to do projects using Arduino and Raspberry Pi. Back then, I did not know that cyber security can be a career. I chose mechanical engineering for my degree because I thought it was the most versatile and I would have more options. It equiped me with lots of important skills such as logical thinking and problem solving. I had fun breaking down things and building them back up again. I also had a design specialisation where I learned the human aspect of things in terms of man-machine interface and human behaviours.

A few months back, I stumbled into the cyber security side of things due to a series of events. First, my metamask crypto wallet was hacked. Although there were only about 30SGD worth of crypto currency inside, I did not like the feeling of having my things stolen. I tried to follow the transactions and traced it to Binance before it got laundered deep into the exchange. Then, I went back to do some simple forensics and found that I got breached when I connected my wallet to one of the crypto sites. There was nothing much that I could have done as the web3 is largely unregulated. 

At around the same time, my dad almost fell pray to an online shopping scam where the website was legit with all the certificates and https. The only gave away was the suspiciously low price. Fortunately, my dad asked me to take a look before entering his credit card details. The online space has become so much more sophisticated where danger can lurk beneath the guise of real fronts. It was during this period that there were increased publicity on scams and online safety awareness. All these got me really interested in the security of the net. I found a rabbit hole and jumped right in. I am excited to be learning new things everyday and I want to be able to help people not become victims of cybercrimes. And so here I am trying to better myself everyday for this purpose.

tldr; I was a victim of cybercrime. I found out that cybersecurity can be a career. I love learning everyday. I want to help people.
